**[President of the United States](/wiki/President_of_the_United_States "President of the United States" )**  
**Incumbent**

  * [Election](/wiki/United_States_presidential_election,_2016 "United States presidential election, 2016" )
    * [International reactions](/wiki/International_reactions_to_the_United_States_presidential_election,_2016 "International reactions to the United States presidential election, 2016" )
  * [Transition](/wiki/Presidential_transition_of_Donald_Trump "Presidential transition of Donald Trump" )
    * [Inauguration](/wiki/Inauguration_of_Donald_Trump "Inauguration of Donald Trump" )
  * [Presidency](/wiki/Presidency_of_Donald_Trump "Presidency of Donald Trump" )
    * [Timeline](/wiki/Timeline_of_the_presidency_of_Donald_Trump "Timeline of the presidency of Donald Trump" )
    * [First 100 days](/wiki/First_100_days_of_Donald_Trump%27s_presidency "First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency" )
    * [Executive actions](/wiki/List_of_executive_actions_by_Donald_Trump "List of executive actions by Donald Trump" )
    * [Trips](/wiki/List_of_presidential_trips_made_by_Donald_Trump "List of presidential trips made by Donald Trump" )
    * [Opinion polling](/wiki/Opinion_polling_on_the_Donald_Trump_administration "Opinion polling on the Donald Trump administration" )
  * [Appointments](/wiki/Political_appointments_of_Donald_Trump "Political appointments of Donald Trump" )
    * [Cabinet](/wiki/Cabinet_of_Donald_Trump "Cabinet of Donald Trump" )
    * [Judges](/wiki/List_of_federal_judges_appointed_by_Donald_Trump "List of federal judges appointed by Donald Trump" )
    * [Supreme Court](/wiki/Donald_Trump_Supreme_Court_candidates "Donald Trump Supreme Court candidates" )

* * *

**[Political positions](/wiki/Political_positions_of_Donald_Trump "Political positions of Donald Trump" )**

  * [Economy](/wiki/Economic_policy_of_Donald_Trump "Economic policy of Donald Trump" )
  * [Environment](/wiki/Environmental_policy_of_the_Donald_Trump_administration "Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration" )
  * Foreign policy 
    * [as candidate](/wiki/Foreign_policy_of_Donald_Trump "Foreign policy of Donald Trump" )
    * [as president](/wiki/Foreign_policy_of_the_Donald_Trump_administration "Foreign policy of the Donald Trump administration" )
  * [Immigration](/wiki/Immigration_policy_of_Donald_Trump "Immigration policy of Donald Trump" )
  * [Social issues](/wiki/Social_policy_of_Donald_Trump "Social policy of Donald Trump" )

* * *

  * [Campaign for the Presidency](/wiki/Donald_Trump_presidential_campaign,_2016 "Donald Trump presidential campaign, 2016" )
    * [2016](/wiki/United_States_presidential_election,_2016 "United States presidential election, 2016" )
  * [Primaries](/wiki/Republican_Party_presidential_primaries,_2016 "Republican Party presidential primaries, 2016" )
  * [Stop Trump movement](/wiki/Stop_Trump_movement "Stop Trump movement" )
  * [Convention](/wiki/2016_Republican_National_Convention "2016 Republican National Convention" )
  * [Endorsements](/wiki/List_of_Donald_Trump_presidential_campaign_endorsements,_2016 "List of Donald Trump presidential campaign endorsements, 2016" )
  * [Debates](/wiki/United_States_presidential_debates,_2016 "United States presidential debates, 2016" )
  * [Sexual misconduct allegations](/wiki/Donald_Trump_sexual_misconduct_allegations "Donald Trump sexual misconduct allegations" )

* * *

[The Trump Organization](/wiki/The_Trump_Organization "The Trump Organization"
)

_Real estate_

New York properties

    [Trump Tower](/wiki/Trump_Tower "Trump Tower" )
    [The Trump Building](/wiki/The_Trump_Building "The Trump Building" )
    [Trump Parc](/wiki/Trump_Parc "Trump Parc" )
    [Trump Park Avenue](/wiki/Trump_Park_Avenue "Trump Park Avenue" )
    [Trump SoHo](/wiki/Trump_SoHo "Trump SoHo" )
    [Trump Village](/wiki/Trump_Village "Trump Village" )
    [Trump World Tower](/wiki/Trump_World_Tower "Trump World Tower" )
    [Central Park Carousel](/wiki/Central_Park_Carousel "Central Park Carousel" )
    [Wollman Rink](/wiki/Wollman_Rink "Wollman Rink" )

Hotels

    [Chicago](/wiki/Trump_International_Hotel_and_Tower_\(Chicago\) "Trump International Hotel and Tower \(Chicago\)" )
    [Honolulu](/wiki/Trump_International_Hotel_and_Tower_\(Honolulu\) "Trump International Hotel and Tower \(Honolulu\)" )
    [Las Vegas](/wiki/Trump_International_Hotel_Las_Vegas "Trump International Hotel Las Vegas" )
    [New York](/wiki/Trump_International_Hotel_and_Tower_\(New_York_City\) "Trump International Hotel and Tower \(New York City\)" )
    [Palm Beach (Mar-a-Lago)](/wiki/Mar-a-Lago "Mar-a-Lago" )
    [Washington](/wiki/Old_Post_Office_Pavilion "Old Post Office Pavilion" )
    [Panama](/wiki/Trump_Ocean_Club_International_Hotel_and_Tower "Trump Ocean Club International Hotel and Tower" )
    [Toronto](/wiki/Trump_International_Hotel_and_Tower_\(Toronto\) "Trump International Hotel and Tower \(Toronto\)" )
    [Vancouver](/wiki/Trump_International_Hotel_and_Tower_\(Vancouver\) "Trump International Hotel and Tower \(Vancouver\)" )

**Name licensing**

    [Trump Palace](/wiki/Trump_Palace_Condominiums "Trump Palace Condominiums" )
    [Trump Place](/wiki/Riverside_South,_Manhattan "Riverside South, Manhattan" )
    [Trump Plaza](/wiki/Trump_Plaza_\(disambiguation\) "Trump Plaza \(disambiguation\)" )
    [Trump Tower](/wiki/Trump_Tower_\(disambiguation\) "Trump Tower \(disambiguation\)" )

**Former notable properties**

    [GM Building](/wiki/General_Motors_Building_\(Manhattan\) "General Motors Building \(Manhattan\)" )
    [Grand Hyatt](/wiki/Grand_Hyatt_New_York "Grand Hyatt New York" )
    [Plaza Hotel](/wiki/Plaza_Hotel "Plaza Hotel" )

_Golf courses_

U.S.

  * [Los Angeles](/wiki/Trump_National_Golf_Club_\(Los_Angeles\) "Trump National Golf Club \(Los Angeles\)" )
  * [Miami "Doral"](/wiki/Trump_National_Doral_Miami "Trump National Doral Miami" )
  * [Washington](/wiki/Trump_National_Golf_Club_\(Washington,_D.C.\) "Trump National Golf Club \(Washington, D.C.\)" )
  * [Bedminster](/wiki/Trump_National_Golf_Club_\(Bedminster,_New_Jersey\) "Trump National Golf Club \(Bedminster, New Jersey\)" )
  * [Ferry Point](/wiki/Ferry_Point_Park#Facilities "Ferry Point Park" )
  * [Pine Hill](/wiki/Trump_National_Golf_Club_\(Philadelphia\) "Trump National Golf Club \(Philadelphia\)" )
  * [Westchester](/wiki/Trump_National_Golf_Club_Westchester "Trump National Golf Club Westchester" )
  * [West Palm Beach](/wiki/Trump_International_Golf_Club_\(West_Palm_Beach\) "Trump International Golf Club \(West Palm Beach\)" )

Europe

  * [Doonbeg](/wiki/Trump_International_Golf_Links_and_Hotel_Ireland "Trump International Golf Links and Hotel Ireland" )
  * [Turnberry](/wiki/Turnberry_\(golf_course\) "Turnberry \(golf course\)" )

_Other ventures_

Current

  * [Trump Home](/wiki/Trump_Home "Trump Home" )
  * [Trump Models](/wiki/Trump_Model_Management "Trump Model Management" )
  * [Trump Productions](/wiki/Trump_Productions "Trump Productions" )
  * [Trump Winery](/wiki/Trump_Winery "Trump Winery" )

Former

  * [Miss Universe](/wiki/Miss_Universe "Miss Universe" )
  * [Trump Entertainment Resorts](/wiki/Trump_Entertainment_Resorts "Trump Entertainment Resorts" )
  * [Trump Foundation](/wiki/Donald_J._Trump_Foundation "Donald J. Trump Foundation" )
  * [Trump University](/wiki/Trump_University "Trump University" )
  * [Miscellaneous](/wiki/The_Trump_Organization#Other_ventures_and_investments "The Trump Organization" )

* * *

  * [Business career](/wiki/Business_career_of_Donald_Trump "Business career of Donald Trump" )
  * [Eponyms](/wiki/List_of_things_named_after_Donald_Trump "List of things named after Donald Trump" )
  * [Family](/wiki/Family_of_Donald_Trump "Family of Donald Trump" )
  * [Legal affairs](/wiki/Legal_affairs_of_Donald_Trump "Legal affairs of Donald Trump" )
  * [Protests](/wiki/Protests_against_Donald_Trump "Protests against Donald Trump" )
  * [Residences](/wiki/Residences_of_Donald_Trump "Residences of Donald Trump" )

* * *

  * [_The Apprentice_ franchise](/wiki/The_Apprentice_\(TV_series\) "The Apprentice \(TV series\)" )
  * [Films](/wiki/Filmography_of_Donald_Trump "Filmography of Donald Trump" )

[Books](/wiki/Bibliography_of_Donald_Trump "Bibliography of Donald Trump" )

  * _[The Art of the Deal](/wiki/Trump:_The_Art_of_the_Deal "Trump: The Art of the Deal" )_
  * _[Surviving at the Top](/wiki/Trump:_Surviving_at_the_Top "Trump: Surviving at the Top" )_
  * _[The America We Deserve](/wiki/The_America_We_Deserve "The America We Deserve" )_
  * _[Crippled America](/wiki/Crippled_America "Crippled America" )_

* * *

[![President of the United
States](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/36/Seal_of_the_President_of_the_United_States.svg/60px-
Seal_of_the_President_of_the_United_States.svg.png)](/wiki/President_of_the_United_States
"President of the United States" )  
  
  * [v](/wiki/Template:Donald_Trump_series "Template:Donald Trump series" )
  * [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Donald_Trump_series "Template talk:Donald Trump series" )
  * [e](//en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Donald_Trump_series&action=edit)

  
  
**Donald John Trump** (born June 14, 1946) is the [45th](/wiki/List_of_Presidents_of_the_United_States "List of Presidents of the United States" ) and current [President of the United States](/wiki/President_of_the_United_States "President of the United States" ). Prior to entering politics full time, he was a businessman and television personality.

Trump was born and raised in [Queens](/wiki/Queens "Queens" ), New York City,
and earned an [economics](/wiki/Economics "Economics" ) degree from the
[Wharton School of the University of
Pennsylvania](/wiki/Wharton_School_of_the_University_of_Pennsylvania "Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania" ). He then took charge of [The Trump
Organization](/wiki/The_Trump_Organization "The Trump Organization" ), the
real estate and construction firm founded by his paternal grandmother, which
he ran for four and a half decades until 2017. During his real estate career,
Trump has built, renovated, and managed numerous office towers, hotels,
casinos, and golf courses. Besides real estate, he started several side
ventures and has lent the use of his name for the branding of various products
and properties. He owned the [Miss USA](/wiki/Miss_USA "Miss USA" ) and [Miss
Universe](/wiki/Miss_Universe "Miss Universe" ) pageants from 1996 to 2015,
and he hosted _[The Apprentice](/wiki/The_Apprentice_\(U.S._TV_series\) "The
Apprentice \(U.S. TV series\)" )_, a reality television series on NBC, from
2004 to 2015. His calculated net worth as of
2017[[update]](//en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Donald_Trump&action=edit)
is $3.5 billion, making him the 544th richest person in the world.

Trump first publicly expressed interest in running for political office in
1987. He won two [Reform
Party](/wiki/Reform_Party_of_the_United_States_of_America "Reform Party of the
United States of America" ) presidential primaries in 2000, but withdrew his
candidacy early on. In June 2015, he launched his campaign for the [2016
presidential election](/wiki/United_States_presidential_election,_2016 "United
States presidential election, 2016" ) and quickly emerged as the front-runner
among 17 candidates in the [Republican
primaries](/wiki/Republican_Party_presidential_primaries,_2016 "Republican
Party presidential primaries, 2016" ). His final opponents suspended their
campaigns in May 2016, and in July he was formally nominated at the
[Republican National Convention](/wiki/2016_Republican_National_Convention
"2016 Republican National Convention" ) along with Indiana governor [Mike
Pence](/wiki/Mike_Pence "Mike Pence" ) as his [running
mate](/wiki/Running_mate "Running mate" ). Many of his campaign statements
were [controversial or false](/wiki/Trump_campaign_controversies "Trump
campaign controversies" ), generating much [free media
coverage](/wiki/Earned_media "Earned media" ).

Trump won the general election on November 8, 2016, in a surprise victory
against [Democratic](/wiki/Democratic_Party_\(United_States\) "Democratic
Party \(United States\)" ) opponent [Hillary Clinton](/wiki/Hillary_Clinton
"Hillary Clinton" ). He became [the
oldest](/wiki/List_of_Presidents_of_the_United_States_by_age "List of
Presidents of the United States by age" ) and
[wealthiest](/wiki/List_of_Presidents_of_the_United_States_by_net_worth "List
of Presidents of the United States by net worth" ) person to assume the
presidency, the first without [prior military or government
service](/wiki/List_of_Presidents_of_the_United_States_by_previous_experience
"List of Presidents of the United States by previous experience" ), and [the
fifth elected with
less](/wiki/United_States_presidential_elections_in_which_the_winner_lost_the_popular_vote
"United States presidential elections in which the winner lost the popular
vote" ) than a [plurality](/wiki/Plurality_\(voting\) "Plurality \(voting\)" )
of the [national popular vote](/wiki/Popular_vote_\(representative_democracy\)
"Popular vote \(representative democracy\)" ). His political positions have
been described by scholars and commentators as [populist](/wiki/Populist
"Populist" ), [protectionist](/wiki/Protectionism_in_the_United_States
"Protectionism in the United States" ), and
[nationalist](/wiki/American_nationalism "American nationalism" ).

  *[v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[e]: Edit this template

