The **Illuminati** (plural of [Latin](/wiki/Latin "Latin" ) _illuminatus_,
"enlightened") is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious.
Historically, the name usually refers to the **Bavarian Illuminati**, an
[Enlightenment](/wiki/Age_of_enlightenment "Age of enlightenment" )-era
[secret society](/wiki/Secret_society "Secret society" ) founded on 1 May
1776. The society's goals were to oppose [superstition](/wiki/Superstition
"Superstition" ), [obscurantism](/wiki/Obscurantism "Obscurantism" ),
religious influence over public life and abuses of [state
power](/wiki/Power_\(social_and_political\) "Power \(social and political\)"
). "The order of the day," they wrote in their general statutes, "is to put an
end to the machinations of the purveyors of injustice, to control them without
dominating them".[1] The Illuminati—along with [Freemasonry](/wiki/Freemasonry
"Freemasonry" ) and other secret societies—were outlawed through
[edict](/wiki/Edict "Edict" ), by the Bavarian ruler, [Charles
Theodore](/wiki/Charles_Theodore,_Elector_of_Bavaria "Charles Theodore,
Elector of Bavaria" ), with the encouragement of the [Roman Catholic
Church](/wiki/Roman_Catholic_Church "Roman Catholic Church" ), in 1784, 1785,
1787 and 1790.[2] In the several years following, the group was vilified by
conservative and religious critics who claimed that they continued underground
and were responsible for the [French Revolution](/wiki/French_Revolution
"French Revolution" ).

Many influential intellectuals and progressive politicians counted themselves
as members, including [Ferdinand of Brunswick](/wiki/Ferdinand_of_Brunswick
"Ferdinand of Brunswick" ) and the diplomat [Xavier von
Zwack](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franz_Xaver_von_Zwack "de:Franz Xaver von
Zwack" ), who was the Order's second-in-command.[3] It attracted literary men
such as [Johann Wolfgang von Goethe](/wiki/Johann_Wolfgang_von_Goethe "Johann
Wolfgang von Goethe" ) and [Johann Gottfried
Herder](/wiki/Johann_Gottfried_Herder "Johann Gottfried Herder" ) and the
reigning dukes of [Gotha](/wiki/Gotha_\(district\) "Gotha \(district\)" ) and
[Weimar](/wiki/Weimar "Weimar" ).[4]

In subsequent use, "Illuminati" refers to various organisations which claim or
are purported to have links to the original Bavarian Illuminati or similar
secret societies, though these links are unsubstantiated. They are often
alleged to conspire to control world affairs, by masterminding events and
planting agents in [government](/wiki/Government "Government" ) and
[corporations](/wiki/Corporation "Corporation" ), in order to gain political
power and influence and to establish a [New World
Order](/wiki/New_World_Order_\(conspiracy_theory\) "New World Order
\(conspiracy theory\)" ). Central to some of the most widely known and
elaborate [conspiracy theories](/wiki/Conspiracy_theories "Conspiracy
theories" ), the Illuminati have been depicted as lurking in the shadows and
pulling the strings and levers of power in dozens of novels, films, television
shows, comics, video games, and music videos.

